
* Add code to use XDG dirs: XDG_CONFIG_HOME (or HOME/.config) for
  brainjam.ini, XDG_DATA_HOME (or HOME/.local/share) for the rest. If
  neither are defined, use HOME/.brainjam for both. If HOME is
  undefined try to use ./save.

* BUG (?): On Wine, the window comes up all-black after being restored
  from a minimized state. It's unclear if this happens on real Windows
  hosts, or if it's just an issue with Wine. But the solution seems to
  be to create a brand-new renderer and re-create all of the existing
  textures from scratch. I haven't found any documentation on this,
  though, so I'm not sure I believe this is a real issue, or just the
  fault of something I'm doing.

* Come up with a more attractive layout for the opening screen?

* Add unit tests for the game logic code. This will probably also
  require new Makefile rules.

* Add feature to copy solutions to the clipboard. This presumably
  means adding a new button to the list display.

* Improve the calculation of solution equivalence, so that two states
  that differ only in (say) the ordering of reserve cards are seen as
  equivalent. This will require the game state encoding to change, so
  that individual reserves and tableau piles do not keep their
  identities, but are simply listed in some fixed ordering. (It is not
  clear if this will in turn require extra state data to be appended.)
  Moves will also need to be stored differently internally, recording
  the card being moved instead of the place it came from. That will
  change the encoding of the session files.

* Add feature to generate a new layout, random but guaranteed to be
  solvable. Such games would not have a configuration ID and would not
  generate saved solutions. These differences might require changes in
  a few different areas of the existing code. However, such a feature
  would allow users to play the game more than 1500 times. (Algorithm
  to generate a new, solvable game: Start at the final state and make
  random inverse moves. An inverse move into the tableau onto a
  non-sequential card is permanent, causing the card to become
  unavailable for further moves. A decreasing temperature, in the
  manner of simulated annealing, causes the frequency of permanent
  moves to slowly increase, until the end when all cards are forced
  into the tableau.)
